Daniel Freder
Project 3 - “Slow Burn”

WHAT IS YOUR PROJECT?

My project is an interactive music video for the DF song “Slow Burn”. 
It was built through experiments playing with geometries and arrays in p5.js’ WebGL canvas. 

WHY DID YOU DO IT?

DF is an audiovisual collaboration I’m part of with saxophonist Dustin Finer. 
Our shows are equal parts music and light, wherein I try to visualize the hypnotic sounds of looped saxophone with audio-reactive light installations and digital projections. 
Project 3 was a great opportunity to put my newfound JS skills to use, and create content for a new DF tune, using the interactive spirit of our live shows as a jumping off point. 
The song I picked: “Slow Burn”, when played live features 3D geometries that distort in-time to the music.

HOW DID YOU DO IT?

Initially I planned to use A-Frame, because it looked really appealing from the outside, and had an “easy DIY 3D-in-the-browser” vibe. 
After getting ⅔ of the way through A-Frame school, I wasn’t a huge fan of the workflow, and instead turned my efforts towards p5, where I felt I had a better lay of the land + more inspiring creative constraints.

The 3 interactions that drive animations in my project are:
 
-Song Amplitude
-Mouse Position
-Mouse Presses

Building this project was a constant internal battle for me, over how much control to give users. 
In the end, I took a pretty dictatorial approach, that favours stronger audiovisual pairings over user freedom. 
The result is one that feels more like a mildly participatory music video and less like an interactive experience. 
Though it wasn’t part of my gameplan when I started to make this, it’s not something that bothers me, as I find the “video” remains intriguing. 
Notably, because we’re so used to consuming music videos online through small rectangles surrounded by distraction. 
The full browser window as a frame helps participants focus, and commit to participating in the art experience. 
I hope the lack of pause/rewind/ffwd controls and a mobile version of the site also help in this endeavour.

This project is incomplete, as “Slow Burn” is still in post-production, and as a result, I don’t have a final mix. 
I currently have an excellent window of time to playtest things pre-release, any/all feedback appreciated, I intend to continue working on this throughout the summer.
